prompt:

Please describe your motivation, academic preparation and aptitude for graduate
study at UC Davis. You should describe your academic plans and research
interests, your specialization within your academic field, your research
experiences and your career goals.

=================================================================================

I was originally attracted to particle physics for two reasons: the beauty of
truly fundamental physics, and the truly gigantic machines.  The biggest tool in
particle physicists' toolbox are particle colliders - giant machines that
accelerate beams of particles and then smash them together in a fiery, energetic
explosion. The newest and biggest machine, the Large Hadron Collider (LHC),
started operating near Geneva, Switzerland this past November after many years
of preparation. The energy of the collisions occurring at the LHC allow us to
probe unknown areas of physics: with higher energies we can discover new
particles that haven't been plentiful since the universe cooled down after the
Big Bang.  We anticipate that these as yet undiscovered particles will provide
important clues about our theories of the universe.   

For the past four years, I have been a member in an experiment at the LHC called
the Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS). Standing six stories tall and weighing 12.5
kilotons, CMS sits at the point where the beams are collided and takes three
dimensional pictures of all of particles that fly out from the collision.  

One of the CMS experiment's prime objectives, and the subject of my thesis, is
the search for the Higgs boson, hypothesized to exist in 1964 as an explanation
for the existence of mass.  During my graduate career, all of my very diverse
efforts have had common theme: maximizing our potential to discover the Higgs
boson.  My research focuses on a particular channel for observing the Higgs,
where it will immediately decay to two tau leptons, subatomic particles
resembling heavy electrons.

One of the first research activities I participated in was the commissioning of
the CMS pixel detector, a device that precisely measures the trajectory of
charged particles.  Excellent charged particle tracking is crucial to tau
identification. I assisted in constructing, testing, and installing the pixels
in CMS.  Furthermore, I designed and wrote the software that calibrates each of
the 66 million pixels individually.

My thesis advisor John Conway and I have been actively improving the field of
tau identification. Identifying a tau is like finding a needle in a haystack:
the identification algorithm must efficiently discern true tau leptons, but must
not give false positives for 'jets,' which are sprays of particles that look
very similar to taus, but are produced at a rate millions of times higher. Dr.
Conway and I developed a novel new algorithm that reduced the number of false
positives by a factor of ten.  This algorithm is now used as a standard in the
collaboration, and will directly improve the statistical significance of the
Higgs search.  Additionally, I serve a leadership role within the tau-ID group,
managing the software and coordinating the efforts of other developers.

Now I am working with the UC Davis group to prepare the analysis to measure the
Z boson (an already discovered particle) as it decays to tau leptons.  This is
the penultimate step in discovering the Higgs, as evidence of the Higgs will
appear as a bump in the Z mass spectrum.

I look forward to the incipient deluge of new data from CMS, which will provide
the information needed to search for new physics. And, I'm excited to take a
crack at discovering the Higgs.  After I complete my degree, I plan to obtain a
post-doctoral appointment in the field of collider physics with the goal of
securing a professorship at an American university.  
