
Evan has made major contributions to the Higgs physics program at CMS.  His
contributions have directly improved the sensitivity of searches for the Higgs
using taus at CMS.  Tau physics is especially difficult at hadron colliders due
to the large fake background and the neutrinos produced in tau decays.  Evan has
developed innovative new experimental techniques which directly address these
two challenges.  

Evan developed the novel tau identification algorithm TaNC.  The method uses an
ensemble of neural networks and reconstructs the individual decay modes of the
tau.  It reduced the background mis-identification rate of the previous
algorithm used in the CMS PTDR by a factor of five while maintaining the same
signal efficiency [1]. The performance of the algorithm was shown to be a factor
of 3 to 4 times better than equivalent ATLAS algorithm at the Tau 2010
conference.  The application of this algorithm to the Higgs search reduced the
(previously) dominant QCD fake background below the level of the irreducible
Ztautau background.  This resulted in better exclusion limits in the high mass
region (lower QCD tail) and near the Z peak (measured with greater precision).
Evan played a leading role in the commissioning of the tau identification [2,3],
and serves as the software librarian and Reconstruction group contact for the
Tau POG.

Tau decays always include neutrinos so the mass of the tau pair is not directly
reconstructed.  In the past, searches for the Higgs in the tau channels
generally looked for the Higgs in the visible decay product mass spectrum.  Evan
developed a new algorithm which reconstructs the full mass of the tau pair, the
SV fit.  The SV fit reconstructs the neutrinos associated to the taus by
maximizing a novel likelihood function.  The SV fit has 20% better relative
resolution than the visible mass, allowing better discrimination between a Higgs
bump and the Z background [4,5].  [The resolution is also much better than the
collinear approximation, and the efficiency is 100% instead of 50%.  But no one
serious uses the collinear approximation.]  The use of the SV fit shape (instead
of the visible mass) directly improves the exclusion limits set by CMS on the
MSSM by 20%, for all Higgs masses greater than 90 GeV/c^2.  This improvement has
pushed the 2010 CMS result past the current RunIIb limits set by the Tevatron. 

Evan applied these new methods in complete, independent analyses to measure the
Ztautau cross section [6] and search for the MSSM Higgs [7].  He measured the
fake backgrounds in the analyses using two complementary background estimation
methods, a template fit and the Fake Rate Method [8, 9].  He has made extensive
contributions to the TauAnalysis package, the analysis software framework of the
EWK Tau PAG. 

Evan has a number of proposals (Dynamical likelihood method, tracking detector
information, tau polarization) to improve the performance of the SV fit
algorithm.  Any improvement in the SV fit performance would translate directly
to improved search significance of the MSSM Higgs search using current and
future data sets.  Additionally, he has proposed applying the SV fit methods
to apply to Standard Model Higgs searches, and searches with different
tau topologies, such as the singly and doubly charged Higgs searches.

[1] AN-2010/099
[2] PAS-PFT-10-001
[3] PAS-PFT-10-004
[4] AN-2010/430
[5] HIG-10-002
[6] AN-2011/021
[7] AN-2010/460
[8] AN-2010/074
[9] AN-2011/049
